
Motivation
==============================
As it can be seen from previous sections, video codec with higher compression efficiency is demanded in many scenarios. AV1, as an open source video codec, gives people the freedom and more possibilities to build the products or projects based on it. Also, the members of AOM include all the big players like Google, Facebook, Netflix, Apple, Intel, etc, the maintenance and development of AV1 are more guaranteed. All these reasons increase the chance for AV1 to dominate the video market. However, AV1 achieves higher efficiency by introducing more encoding tools and enabling more block sizes for encoding. Every block in the video finds the best encoding mode by iterating through all the encoding tools. This leads to very long encoding time. Even though at the moment AV1 has been implemented with many accelerating functions, including some machine learning approaches, which will be discussed in the following chapter, the encoding speed is still falling behind its competitors. Thus, exploring other accelerating strategies to improve the encoding speed is the main goal of this research. Particularly, deep learning has been proved to have superior performance in many fields, such as image recognition or nature language processing. Many researches have also shown deep learning can improve the encoding speed by replacing some encoding steps. Inspired by these researches, incorporating deep learning into AV1 to improve the encoding speed is the main interest of this research.
